---
layout: blog
categories: blog gear
title: Benchmark DAC1 HDR
---
About 6 months ago
[Benchmark](https://www.benchmarkmedia.com/dac/dac1-hdr) made me a
sweet deal to upgrade my original DAC1 to a DAC1 HDR.  I'm a huge fan
of my DAC1, but passed on the original offer.  I had just made a
serious investment in amp, preamp, and home theater processor and just
couldn't justify one more purchase.  This week I got a chance to
revisit the offer and with some hesitance took them up on it. 

The new DAC1 arrived today and it's now successfully installed in my
main system.  Unboxing revealed a device that is nearly
indistinguishable from my original DAC1 from a distance, but a closer
look reveals some nice features that I'll touch on in a moment.  It
took about 5 minutes to get everything hooked up and I was ready to go
for an initial listen. 

First the sonics.  There is a definite improvement over the original
DAC1 that is not at all subtle.  The separation among instruments is
definitely improved and is something I care a great deal about.  The
original DAC1 had this as one of its strengths, so improving was no
small task.  Also important to me is the speed of a stereo.  What I
mean by that is how quickly an attack occurs at the beginning of a
note and now quickly it ends.  Instruments like acoustic guitar and
bass, acoustic piano, and drums require speed to reproduce
effectively.  There's nothing worse than cymbals that don't sound like
cymbals - a surefire test for a bad system.  After listening to
Lambchop's latest and Ari Hoering I've noticed a substantial
improvement in speed and the ability to reproduce acoustic instruments
generally.  Again, this was a strength of the original DAC1, so
improvement here was not easy.  I am exceptionally pleased with the
sound of this DAC and would be happy if that was all the upgrade did.
I'll report back further when I've have more listening time. 

Other improvements include some nice new functionality.  First,
Benchmark has added a USB input, 3 additional digital inputs, and kept
the single optical input.  There's also a new analog input pair as
well. What this does is makes the DAC a digital input source selector.
I've wanted this capability for a long while.  I have 3 digital
sources that I want to switch between.  The old DAC1 (and every other
DAC I've owned) made this difficult.  The addition of a remote and 6
different inputs (USB, 4 digital, 1 analog) means that I can run all
of my digital sources and choose them using my universal remote.  Way
cool.

The DAC1 also functions as a pre-amp if you want it to.  I don't use
this feature, but the addition of an analog input makes the original
system even more useful.  The DAC1 has a wonderful headphone output
(also something I don't use much).  The volume knob makes this a sweet
little digital pre-amp.  A switch on the back allows you to choose to
go around the volume and generate line out, include the volume knob
and have a preamp, or mute the whole thing and have a headphone amp.
If you buy one of these, just keep in mind that it comes set in preamp
mode.  This caught me off guard when I didn't get any sound out when I
first hooked it up - I'm not used to a volume knob on my DAC that
controls output.  A quick switch flip configured the device how I
wanted it.

All-in-all, 3 hours after plugging the device in I'm pretty darned
happy.  The DAC1 HDR is not a cheap device, but I'd challenge you to
find something as good for the same money or less.  My old CAL Alpha
comes as close as anything, but CAL is long gone thanks to some dip
wad consumer audio company - GoVideo - who swore they would leave them
alone after buying them.  Right.  Living well is the best revenge, so
my DAC1 makes me even happier.
