---
layout: blog
categories: blog music
title: Chicago
---
[Chicago](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago_(band)) is among my
favorite bands of all time.  I started listening in junior high
school, when through a time in high school when I wanted to be their
trumpet player, and have never been able to sit still for *Saturday In
the Park*.  Very few bands that I listened to in 7th grade still
appeal to me in any way shape or form.  In fact, Chicago might be the
only one.

For those of you born post 1990, you know Chicago as a ballad band
that produced such Cetera sung hits as *You're the Inspiration* and
*Hard Habit to Break*.  Slow dance inspiring love ballads that represented the
section of every high school dance in the late 80's when you actually
got to stand and sway while touching your date.  This is not the
Chicago that I refer to.  Not at all.

Starting off as Chicago Transit Authority, Chicago was a hard charging,
politically active, self-described "rock band with horns."  Not a bad
description, but I would call them a "jazz band with rock
sensibilities and screaming guitars." Along with *Blood Sweat and
Tears* and *Chase*, the greatest of the horn bands.  Every pep band in
the world still plays *25 or 6 to 4* to appease the need for every
trumpet player to scream out that staccato riff for one moment of
fleeting fame.  I digress...

Chicago was a great horn band whose albums far exceed their singles.
Yes, those singles are great, but if you listen to Chicago II you'll
discover that *Only the Beginning* and *Color My World* and *25 or 6
to 4* are actually movements in a ballet.  And what a ballet it is!
Time signatures dancing from 3 to 11, amazing jazz, rock and classical
licks juxtaposed, flute solos, astounding drumming.  All juxtaposed in
a way that belies the label "horn band."

Sorry folks, music like this just doesn't make it on the radio today.
It just doesn't.  Mind you, there *is* great music being released, but
not this kind of great music.  When is the last time an album was
released with voter registration cards in the packaging?  Lyrics that
implore youth to become politically involved?  Chicago is a classic
mix of politics, rock, horns, and brilliant vocals.  You'll also hear
Chicago's missteps right there with their best work.  Somehow I find
that refreshing.

If you're looking for great Chicago albums, *Chicago Transit
Authority*, *II*, *V*, and *X* are considered classics that I love to
hear.  *Live at Carnegie Hall* gets mixed reviews, but I like most of
it.  I much prefer the early stuff over the later stuff[^1].  Also,
don't mess with the greatest hits albums or download singles.  Often
times what is Chicago happens between the hits or even between the tracks.

[^1]:Note that I don't consider anything after Peter Kath died -
*Hot Streets* and later - to be Chicago.  Think The Rolling Stones
without Jagger or the Grateful Dead without Jerry Garcia.  Might be
good.  Just not the same.
