---
layout: blog
categories: blog gear movies
title: New Gear
---
Major overhaul in the stereo room!  Gone are the venerable Snell C/Vs and Parasound amplifier.  Replaced with an amazing system that I happened to stumble into.  Sometimes it is way better to be lucky than good.

Let's backup...

If you've kept up with my blog, you know that I've been in the market for new speakers.  I expressed disappoinment in Martin Logan for having nothing to hear, listened to B&Ws and Gamuts that  were good, but did not overwhelm.  Nice speakers mind you, but just not what I was looking for.

Enter my uncle Chuck Chiles who works for the [Russ Berger Design Group](https://rbdg.com).  I get a call at work wondering if I'm still looking for speakers.  Turns out he has a line on a set of custom studio montitors and accompanying amplification system from the now defunct [BiCoastal Music Studios](https://www.sonicscoop.com/2013/08/11/ny-studio-bicoastal-music-closes-hal-winer-on-the-economics-of-world-class-rooms/).  If you look at the pictures, you'll see the speakers in the front of the engineering room.  In total, 1400lbs of speakers and amps sitting in a storage facility in Dallas.

What to do...

Go for it!  A few weeks later and I have a garage filled with 6 crates, 2 boxes of amplifiers, a DSP I have no idea what to do with, and several hundred feet of cable.  I can't lift *any* of it.

Tonight I'm sitting and listening to something that I never thought I would ever hear, much less own.  It is simply spectacular and I'm not done yet.  Over the next few days, I'll document how I got from a garage full of gear to the best sounding stereo you will *ever* hear.

Stay tuned...
