---
layout: blog
categories: blog gear
title: Headphones
---
Love them or hate them, I spend quite a bit of my listening time using headphones (or cans for short).  I have a ginormous high end system at home that I love, but it’s not particularly portable.  Even if it work, I think it’s a bit loud for the office.

I’m going to write about the several pairs of headphones I own and
when I use them.  Grado SR-2, Sennheiser Momentum M2, Cambridge Audio
Melomania, and Etymotic.

The Grado SR-2 cans are my reference headphones.  I use them at work
paired with a Benchmark DAC1 which has a nice headphone amp.  The
Grados are my favorite and most expensive phones.  They have an edgy
sound I like and are reasonably comfortable.  They are not portable
and cannot be used in a room with others.  They are open backed phones
meaning the earpieces do not have backs.  Thus they bleed sound into
the room.  Luckily I have a solo office. 

My favorite portable cans are the Sennheiser Momentum’s.  They are not
too expensive and come in at about $250.  They are closed back and
have Bluetooth connectivity.  Also noise canceling.  They are
traditional cans in that they go over the ears.  It makes great sense
these are my favorite portables because they are the biggest of my
portables.  Biggest implying bigger coils and bigger base.  However,
bigger implying they are difficult to carry and impossible to exercise
in. 

Enter the PowerBeats and Cambridge Audio cans.  The PowerBeats are an
interesting combination of not so good sound and tight integration
with Apple.  They also will not fall out of my ears when I’m running.
I don’t need great music when I run, but I can’t be horrible either.
At this, the PowerBeats fill the bill pretty well. 

The Cambridge Audio phones are much smaller and go in the ear.  They
fall out when I work out, but are fantastic for carrying around in my
iPod bag.  Thus they get used quite a bit over lunch at the Merc.

Finally Etymotic which are ear-plug in-ear phones.  They are literally
earplugs and block out everything.  However, they do not use Bluetooth
and can really bug your ears from time to time.  The sound is
remarkable, but I just can’t use them all the time - particularly
unsafe for running or anytime you need to hear what's going on around
you.  Plus, the wires are painful. 

There you have it.  A headphone for every occasion!
