---
layout: blog
categories: blog music
title: Tabriz - Sarah Chaksad Orchestra
---
The Sara Chaksad Orchestra is new to me, recommended by Apple Music or
AllAboutJazz - I can’t remember.  Those are my go-to sources for new
jazz music, so I’m certain it’s one of the two.  Anyway... 

The Sara Chaksad Orchestra is what I would call a non-traditional big
band.  Yes the trumpets, trombones, saxes and rhythm section are all
there, but there’s a bass clarinet, strings, shells (the conch type)
and a singer.  I love large ensembles like this and _Tabriz_ does not
disappoint. 

The album is 8 tracks ranging from traditional big band (_The Flower_)
to more outside work (_Song of a Lark_).  My preference leans toward
the more traditional, but there’s still quite a bit of experimental
work here. 

Album opens with _Dreamcatcher_ and a quiet trumpet solo building from
a simple line to the full band.  Trumpet work is highly lyrical with
no pyrotechnics.  Vocalist seems to be working in the background as
well.  Modern big band at its best. 

_Tabriz_ is next featuring a classical/latin style guitar.  The guitar
work is clearly latin, but _Tabriz_ isn’t. Works quite well though. 

_Home_ follows in a similar style with the trumpets working as a solid
unit.  Great sound.  Don’t know who leads the trumpet section, but
they sound particularly great. 

And now for something completely different.  _Mehamn_  opens with
shells.  Can’t recall when I’ve heard shells lately.  I’m not a huge
fan, but they are used to great effect on this piece.  Nice middle
eastern feel integrates the shells perfectly. 

_It’s Too Late_ takes the energy way down along with the tempo.  Nice
change of pace while maintaining the feel and integrity of the album.
Beautiful vocal work on this track. 

_The Flower_ is my favorite track on the album.  Remember mention of
the bass clarinet?  Here it is in spades.  Experimental bass clarinet
no less.  It’s really great.  Eventually the band takes over, but the
clarinet remains.  I hit repeat several times on this one the first
time through. 

_Song of a Lark_ is not my cup of tea.  Starts outside and the band
takes over reasonably soon and brings it back.  I’m not a fan of free
jazz or noise jazz generally, so best not take my feelings too
seriously if you do like that kind fo thing. 

Album closes with _Thankful_ which kind of sums up my feelings about
this discovery.  Happy to have found it.  _Thankful_ opens quietly
featuring the piano.  Much different than the earlier tracks.  It
works. 

_Tabriz_ is something my jazz friends should definitely listen to.
Great big band work that sticks with tradition, but not too closely. 
