---
layout: blog
categories: blog gear
title: Headphones
---
A couple of updates to my headphones list.  Bought a couple of pairs
and disowned a pair. 

Love them or hate them, I spend quite a bit of my listening time using
headphones (or cans for short).  I have a ginormous high end system at
home that I love, but it’s not particularly portable.  Even if it
were, I think it’s a bit loud for the office.  

I’m going to write about the several pairs of headphones I own and
when I use them.  Grado SR-2, Sennheiser Momentum M2, Cambridge Audio
Melomania, and Etymotic. Newest in the stable are Focal Elegia and a
pair of Sennheiser earbuds. Now dead in the closet are my Power 
Beats.  Read on...

The Grado SR-2 cans continue to my reference headphones, but my Focals
are giving them a run for their money.  I use the Focals at work
paired with a Benchmark DAC1 which has a nice headphone amp and the
SR-2s at home with my Pro-Ject Pre-box.  The Grados are my favorite
open-backed headphones.  They have an edgy sound I like and are
reasonably comfortable.  They are not portable and cannot be used in a
room with others.  They are open-backed phones meaning the earpieces
do not have backs.  Thus they bleed sound into the room.  Luckily I
have a solo office at home. 

The Focals are my favorite closed-back headphones. Ever. Soundstage is
not quite as large as the SR-2s, but it's not fair comparing open and
closed back headphones.  Closed-back will always be a bit more
confined.  However, they are awesome.  The bass is outstanding and the
cans are perfectly neutral.  The Grado's are edgy and forward - which
I like - and cannot be called neutral.  Different and equally awesome
sounds. Also got the Elegias at a substantial discount.  That always
helps. 

My favorite portable cans are the Sennheiser Momentum’s.  They are not
too expensive and come in at about $250.  They are closed back and
have Bluetooth connectivity.  Also noise canceling.  They are
traditional cans in that they go over the ears.  It makes great sense 
these are my favorite portables because they are the biggest of my
portables.  Biggest implying bigger coils and bigger bass.  However, 
bigger implying they are difficult to carry and impossible to exercise
in.  

Enter the PowerBeats and Cambridge Audio buds.  The PowerBeats are an
interesting combination of not so good sound and tight integration
with Apple.  They also will not fall out of my ears when I’m running. 
I don’t need great music when I run, but it can’t be horrible either.
After a year or two with the PowerBeats, I consider them the worst
phones I have owned.  They do work brilliantly with the Apple
infrastructure.  However, they frequently discharge in the case rather
than charging and at times only one bud forms a link with the device
I'm using. Now the left bud will not discharge completely and only
stays connected for about 10 minutes.  Do not buy these buds. 

Replacing the PowerBeats are Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless 2
earbuds. Now this is what earbuds should aspire two.  Solid as a rock,
always connect properly, and the sound is glorious.  I continue to be
astonished by the bass.  Yes, I do have to connect to them manually,
but who cares.  They always work and sound great.  Bye-bye PowerBeats
forever. 

The Cambridge Audio buds are much smaller and go in the ear.  They
fall out when I work out, but are fantastic for carrying around in my
iPod bag.  Thus they get used quite a bit over lunch at the Merc. 

Finally Etymotic which are ear-plug in-ear phones.  They are literally
earplugs and block out everything.  However, they do not use Bluetooth
and can really bug your ears from time to time.  The sound is
remarkable, but I just can’t use them all the time - particularly
unsafe for running or anytime you need to hear what's going on around
you.  Plus, the wires are painful.  

There you have it.  A headphone for every occasion!
